##Purpose
To maintain a high standard of academic integrity across the Seneca community and provide the foundation for research, teaching, learning and working practices. 

##Scope
This policy applies to current students and employees.

##Key definitions
Academic integrity
Within an academic environment, “a commitment, even in the face of adversity, to six fundamental values: honesty, trust, fairness, respect, responsibility and courage.” From these values flow principles of behaviour that enable academic communities to translate ideals to action to ensure the credentials granted to students accurately reflect their demonstrated knowledge and abilities. 

##Cheating
Obtaining or attempting to get, or aiding another person to obtain, credit for work or improvement in performance evaluation by dishonest or deceptive means. Examples include, but are not limited to, self-plagiarism, impersonation, falsification, taking individual credit for group work, unauthorized collaborations and aids and undeclared AI use.  

##Seneca business day
Monday to Friday, excluding statutory holidays or any other day Seneca has publicly acknowledged that it is closed.

##Contract cheating
When a student submits academic work created by a third party as if it were their own for academic credit. It may involve a fee paid or an exchange of other items with a third party to complete the work.

##Falsification/fabrication
Misrepresenting another student’s academic work, withholding or forging personal documentation (e.g., medical, academic, and placement information/records, or the unauthorized creation, alteration or reporting of false/inaccurate information in an educational activity) to gain an academic advantage.

##Impersonation
Taking a test, an examination or any other assessment on behalf of another individual in a physical or virtual setting, with their knowledge and consent. 

##Official transcript
A detailed record of a student’s academic history carries an authorized signature and can be requested for a fee.

##Plagiarism
Using another individual’s, group’s or organization’s work (e.g., words, images, ideas, logic, phrases, signatures or computations) as is or modified by replacing words or phrases with synonyms and presenting it as one’s own, without properly citing the source. This may also include self-plagiarism. 

##Self-plagiarism
The unauthorized re-use of one’s work from previous assignments.

##Student record
A documented history of a student’s educational progress found in the Student Centre may include electronic notations/service indicators (e.g., outstanding fees). Electronic notations/service indicators are not visible on a student’s official transcript. 

##Unauthorized aid
Using non-approved supports to complete coursework or assessments, including, but not limited to, peer collaborations, artificial intelligence technology, the internet, smartphones, etc.

##Undeclared AI use
Using artificial intelligence to generate part or all of an assessment without a disclosure statement outlining how and to what extent the artificial technology was used.

##Seneca’s Academic Integrity Program
A holistic, integrated model grounded in teaching and learning that requires the engagement and participation of students and various academic and service areas.

##Academic integrity violation 
An attempt to gain an unfair advantage in any formal assessment, such as coursework and exams.

##Hybrid delivery 
When some parts of a program or course are delivered online, and others are in person and require students to come to campus to complete them.

##Flexible course delivery
When professors teach a class to students in a classroom or lab and broadcast it to other students learning online simultaneously; in courses delivered in a flexible format, students have the choice to come to campus for an on-campus experience or learn remotely online synchronously or asynchronously. 

##Policy
1. General
Seneca upholds a learning community that values academic integrity, honesty, fairness, trust, respect, responsibility and courage.
Seneca is committed to delivering high-quality education and teaching excellence while supporting a positive, equitable and inclusive learning environment.  
2. Academic integrity program
Academic integrity is fundamental to ensure the academic credentials granted by Seneca accurately demonstrate the knowledge and learning of students from all backgrounds and experiences.
The integrated nature of the program requires that policy and procedure, development and training for faculty, along with training sessions and student life programming, be aligned with the institutional philosophies and approaches to academic integrity.
3. Responsibilities
Seneca is responsible for providing information and resources to students focused on ensuring a clear understanding of academic integrity, its importance, what can be done to avoid violations, and how to receive support to achieve a resolution if they occur.
Students are responsible for informing faculty of any circumstance affecting their academic performance as soon as it is known to allow enough time for alternate arrangements.
If a student witnesses or suspects an academic integrity violation, the student can report it following the procedures outlined in Appendix A.
4. Sanctions
Academic integrity sanctions will be applied according to the severity of the violation committed. (See Appendix B for the academic integrity sanctions.)
Before final decisions are made and/or sanctions are applied, the student’s record should be consulted to determine if there were aggravating and/or mitigating factors to the academic integrity violation.
Should a suspected violation of this policy result from, or be combined with, a suspected violation of Seneca’s Student Code of Conduct and/or another non-academic-related Seneca policy, the matter will be investigated and adjudicated through the processes found in the Student Code of Conduct.